Chapter 1
Limbo
At the first circle of Hell, where Virgil himself resides.
They had to cross the river Atcher on a boat to reach the first circle of the abyss, Limbo.

Chapter 2
Lust
the second circle of Hell, exceeds Limbo. People, who were driven by Lust, suffer from torment here.

Dante says that strong violent wind blows in the second circle of Hell.
The fierce wind drags and beats the tormenting souls on the rocks and mountains.
It symbolises the supremacy of Lust over the people which drive them to satisfy their never quenching thirst.

Chapter 3
Gluttony

In the third circle, the souls of those who indulged in voracious feasting and appetite are tortured.

Putrefying modern living filled the whole landscape.
Chapter 4
Greed
The person who condemns the sin of greed is explicitly punished in the fourth circle of Hell.

They use great weights as a weapon
and force it with their chests which symbolize their selfishness during their lifetime.
Chapter 5
Wrath
The fifth circle of Hell is present in the stinking decaying of the Styx River.
In this circle the souls
who live their entire life wrathfully.
According to the poem,
Dante along with Virgil searches for the souls to fight each other furiously on the surface of the Styx River.

Chapter 6
Heresy
The sixth circle of Hell marks the beginning of lower Hell.
They torture souls in successive processes, who committed heinous crimes.

However, the circle punishes souls in a severely tortured climate.
Chapter 7
Violence
Consequently,
the souls of people who indulge
in violence are punished and tortured in the seventh circle of Hell.
Dante further divided this circle into three rings.

Chapter 8
Fraud
The eighth circle of Hell is Mailbuch,
meaning evil ditches. Dante divided this circle
into ten trenches or Bolgia.

Chapter 9
Coccidius
Dante mentioned the last Ninth Circle of Hell which is a frozen lake.
It also has the centre of Hell where Satan resides.
There they freeze the souls in the death
of the lake depending on the type
and severity of their sins.